---
layout: coffee
type:   coffee

title: Chemex

notes:
 Lots of the same notes as the v60 but a notably cleaner cup. Using a coarser
 grind gets rid of the paper-y taste.

timeline:
  0:
    - Water should be 200-205°F
    - Wet filter with 300-400g of water
    - Pour in 50g of grounds
    - Add roughly 100g of water
  30:
    - Fill Chemex to the top (roughly 350g)
  60:
    - Stir grounds to break crust
  90:
    - Pour another 125g
    - Stir grounds
  150:
    - Pour another 125g
    - Stir grounds
  240:
    - Finished Dripping
    - Toss Filter

dial:
  -
    source: Reveal Blonde
    date:   02/20/14 13:30
    coffee: 60.2
    water:  900.0
    temp:   204
    grind:  26
    time:   5:01.04
---
Beans: 40.0g @ 25clicks on Baratza Encore

Water: 600g @ 204°F

Filter: Brown Chemex Filter

Other: Spoon

### Writeup ###

Start out by putting the kettle on to boil. Grab a fresh filter. Folding this
filter is a bit complicated. Leave the filter in the square shape. The filter
is "folded" by simply pulling apart the open edge. It should have 1 layer of
filter paper on one side and 3 layers on the other. Place the thick side toward
the spout of the Chemex. Now drop in about 50g beans into your grinder. On the
Baratza I grind at about 22 clicks, which is a fairly course grind. Because the
filter is so naturally impermeable, fine grinds tend to over extract.  When the
water is fairly hot, pour about 300-400g through the filter. The filters can be
very paper-y if you don't rinse them well.

Pour out the water into the mugs you'll be serving your coffee in. This warms the
mugs and will keep your coffee hot longer.

Dump the grounds into the Chemex. Give the Chemex a good shake to settle the
grounds into a flat bed. Using the spoon or a knuckle create a bit of a dimple
in order to get an even first pour. Next pour in about 100g of water. The
coffee (if it's fresh) should rise as it absorbs the water. This is the "bloom"
that coffee people talk about. After waiting a bit for the grounds to bloom
(about 30 seconds) you should give the grounds a good stir and pour in water
until the top half of the Chemex is nearly filled. You will probably reach
about 450g total water at that point. After you finish pouring, give the
grounds a bit of a stir. After the water falls about an inch below the top of
the Chemex, give it another pour and stir. Do this one more time and you should
hit 700g. As the water falls to the bottom, pay attention to the small glass
'bead' on the outside wall of the Chemex. When the coffee reaches that level,
pull the filter and toss it. Serve and enjoy!

